# The Consolidations of a GPT-2 Generated Chantal

Given what you’ve read and explored in this last module, what are the implications for ‘doing’ digital archaeology?

I certainly found myself grappling with these questions as I continued my studies in the humanities, and the limits that these recent discoveries placed on the field. I don't think I've ever analysed a dataset larger than a [collection of digitized diary photos](https://transcription.si.edu/view/7362/ECf5t) that was made from a collection of less than 400 items, and so I was unprepared for the possibilities that this new type of archaeology presented me with.

I started by looking at the definitions provided for each new concept introduced in the module and imagining the possibilities that these could apply to my work. A quick search later and I discovered that [one of the most common uses of digital archaeology I see is in the content analysis section of [Diaspora](https://diaspora.si.edu/). This type of work is almost always social, involving collaboration between experts within their respective fields. It's common for experts in a field to collaborate on studies they deem important to their peers, and in some cases even publish the results of these collaborations in mainstream, peer-to-peer publications. Digital archaeology is almost always about creating a narrative, and in this sense, it is identical to [my main field of history studies](https://digitalpressatund.files.wordpress.com/2016/09/5_1_chp.pdf). I can think of many ways that a historian could interpret a dataset, and using a typical archive format would likely change the form or format of the data contained within. A historian could place each entry in its own grouping, and this grouping could be debated and changed over time as new evidence was uncovered. Digital history opens up uses for me that I never previously imagined, altering my perceptions of history on behalf of the constantly shifting sands of time.

Final thoughts

As I concluded the course, there was something missing for me. Something that I couldn't place. Maybe it was the content, but I just couldn't seem to get anything done while simultaneously trying to organize and process the massive amount of data that was piling up in front of me. I'm not ashamed to admit that I've had a bit of a tech failure this week, but it's been something I've struggled with all week long and anything to do with technology is a struggle. Granted, I didn't actually need to look further into the methodology of digital archaeology to know that it's a worthy field, but learning about the different ways that data can be analyzed and how the processes that went into generating that data can impact the creation of something meaningful from it is a topic that I definitely need to delve into more if I'm to truly reach my potential.

Whether it be through starting a blog or creating one through [DigVenture](https://dig.netlify.app/post/2020-06-08-week-six), [new skills and knowledge] are the bridges that new horizons open to me. They're acts of critical reflection on the work I've been doing, and the contributions that have been making to the field. Additionally, learning a new skill or two can be a process of discovery, as I found out the hard way...

New Skills

I didn't know how long the other new skills would take me, but they certainly proved to be a process of discovery. As someone who's never touched C# before, the first thing that I did was check to see if I was required to take any computer science courses. The [Microsoft Learning Center's introductory computer science course](https://ms.microsoft.com/en-ca/program/cscdub/Release/2016/bb8e) is fairly straightforward for someone who's never touched it before, and upon clicking through and learning about the various controls that could be used to modify the returned form, I decided to give it a shot.

I didn't think the skill would take much time to learn, and quickly went about adding new activities to my already established RR work. The first I can think of that would use the RR database is creating a simple random number generator to see how the skill would work, and then tried playing with the RR parameters to see how the skill would be perceived by other researchers. I found that when you play with the RR parameters, the number generated tends to follow a pattern much like the training data I references in this post. It seems to work for me, and now I'm ready to start!

The first thing I did when logging in was go over the forms that we created in Week 6 and try generating my own unique username and password. I hit upon a few ideas, but until I could find someone who actually knew me to interact with the system, I played around with the "en" and "res" variables until I discovered someone who actually had access

====================

Given what you’ve read and explored in this last module, what are the implications for ‘doing’ digital archaeology?

I wonder if Cecilia will ever be able to support herself while pursuing this line of work, or if her fascination with digital archaeology will keep her from attaining financial independence. As a service to my readers, I'm publishing this diary in hopes of answering these questions.

Diaries are full of choices, aren't they? Agreements, multiple perspectives, and a writer willing to push back against overwhelming evidence and logic. While I'm sure there are many things I could change about this process like how many previous versions of the same diary I previewed were recollected, I would much rather a better, more documented, data collection process where I'm encouraged to look beyond the numbers and focus on the narrative value of my findings.

This past week has been the most technical yet, but surprisingly the least difficult AND most enjoyable for me. Working in a system to analyse text, capturing every marker I could find, learning a new system-- all while trying to ensure I didn't neglect the process of AD&D-- is a highly mental process. It's something I've struggled with before, but something I learned the hard way when it came to digital history.

I'm not ashamed to admit that I've had a bit of a learning curve in digital history-- even outside of the classroom. I'm aware that in the past semester I didn't have a lot of time to explore, and so fiddling with the numbers and zooming in and out on Google Images while trying to find something to compare it to was a challenge. Ultimately, though, learning the ropes of digital history is just something I do, and this course has made me determined to finish it. I cannot wait to see what the future holds for me!

[poll id="69″]

<div class="respo-posts" >

I'll admit, I had a bit of fun. I made a couple of revelations along the way that may or may not be accurate. And while I'm sure there are many aspects of history that lead to erroneous conclusions, I feel that the discoveries made along the way by digital historians such as myself can be valuable lessons in how the field can be used to further the study of the past.

While I may have found the methods and tools used in digital history challenging at times, I also learned the ins and outs of how they are actually implemented and what can go wrong. There are numerous articles that can be found on this site discussing both the successes and struggles of those who implement or experiment with new digital methods, and this process of digital archaeology is no different. There are numerous failures, but through trial and error and some great reporting by those engaging with the students interacting with the digital tools used, I feel that I'm sure I'll be able to make something of value from what I learn in this field.

This same spirit of trying new things combined with the pursuit of accuracy in all we do is what I feel sets the field apart from any other I've encountered. No one crafts a map using a stopwatch or a database from scratch, and no one does this alone. It's a collaborative effort, and the platforms upon which digital archaeology is built are built to accommodate and support the experiences of those contributing to the creation of the database being analyzed. Yes, there may be errors, and there *may* be hundreds upon hundreds upon hundreds of them, but to me, this creates a framework within which all my anxieties can be put to rest, and where imagination can reign supreme. I don't want my fears to be misplaced, and I don't want my time in digital archaeology to be an empty one either.

This same spirit of exploration and chance encounters also impacts my love of history and the history of ideas. Digital history fascinates me, because it's a field that attempts to incorporate elements of both my passions (cinematic archaeology and digital history) into one cohesive experience. I don't want my digital work to be worthless, I want my digital work to be excellent and worth the investment I put into it. Digital history fascinates me because it's a field that attempts to incorporate elements of both my passions (cinematic archaeology and digital history) into one cohesive experience. I don't want my digital work to be worthless, I want my digital work to be excellent and worth the investment I put into it.

This same spirit of exploration and chance encounters also impacts my love of history and the history of ideas. Digital history fascinates me, because it's a field that attempts to incorporate elements of both my passions (cinematic archaeology and digital history) into one cohesive experience. I don't want my digital work to be worthless, I want my digital work to be excellent and worth the investment I put into it.

This course in digital history gave me an excellent foundation for digital

====================

Given what you’ve read and explored in this last module, what are the implications for ‘doing’ digital archaeology?

I personally think that digital archaeology of this ilk is currently in its infancy, and that of the practices we've looked at so far, these are the best we can do because we're currently restricted by technology to a 'tactile' world where we can't abandon our computers and stop exploring. In this article, I outlined the steps I took to create a simple, yet effective, interface for digitally exploring my subjects; the article is divided up between these activities into subsections because I *thought* about doing more than just a basic activity on my own digital archaeology. I initially played around with the idea of trying to find a historical map via Google and then, once satisfied that I could find no underlying database that could store the multiple sources I needed, I created one myself, using the HDFS file system. I then moved on to the actual mapping of the cemetery, which was to me, it felt like an oxymoron to create a map from scratch, so I just used the general "vertical" model that Google suggested. Well, not quite sure if I adhered to this general model if it's been bugging me all week or if I'm just naturally meant to produce a better product using more modern technologies, but I guess I'm still not sure.

The present I found myself in was an attempt to unravel the mysteries of ​​Hodgetts’ cemetery. I've never worked with TensorFlow before, so immediately without thinking too much about the contents of the text file I was given permission to analyze, I began coding. I guested an object-oriented programming language called Kotlin, and shortly thereafter created a basic form that I could print out and write my own functions/methods/variables/etc. While this initial foray into digital archaeology was interesting, and even potentially workable-- I naively opened my CSV file hoping to learn more-- the final product as a whole was still too "dynamic" for my liking. I found myself wanting to tweak the order of the columns to make the data more like the order in which the individuals were listed, and tweaking the Grey scale to something closer to 100% was the final step in becoming a better digital historian.

This all sounds dramatic and ridiculous to me, but it's true. This all started with a .csv file of TensorFlow equations I could read and mouse over to validate what Cecilia wrote. I discovered that the vast majority of the descendants of the dead were buried in what I would consider "traditional" ways, and so I created a "reproductive" cemetery where the deceased were buried in groups of three, one after the other, behind a wrought-iron gate. I called this cemetery "Cecilia's Point" because, while there were many other cemeteries within walking distance, this one was noticeably more common amongst visitors than the rest.

<iframe style='width: 607px; height: 579px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/tool/Trends/?query=came&query=mrs&query=went&query=got&query=good&mode=document&corpus=bc15d5cd2bfd1a8c68769a9ce127daf7'></iframe>

I then moved on to the "Contexts" tool, not just to explore these networks of associations and compare them to what I learned in the past week, but also to quickly search "Sl". Based on the context given, Sl seemed to make sense. Seems like a fun name to me, until I realized that Cecilia was actually referring to the song "Sl", which was about a woman who is constantly judged by her peers and seeks validation from others in order to feel accepted. In general, I find this concept of "finding" meaning through critical analysis interesting, but then I found it to also be somewhat applicable to my field of history. I'm constantly asked the question, "How can we know about *everything* when we're blind?" and theses related to research methods or ethics are often the result of hours of studying multiple archives or even a year studying a topic for it to seem "real" to me. An important part of my process this week has been expanding my field of history to include non-digital ways of understanding history, and in doing so I've discovered that my experience studying both history and digital archaeology can lead to very different understandings of the past.

Digital archaeology isn't exclusively about digital things. While I feel it's very important to study technology as a tool of history and craft accurate historical interpretations through the use of digital methods, I also think it's important to think about the ethics behind each and every step of digital archaeology. I feel that Canonisk's introduction of their course visualizes this

====================

Given what you’ve read and explored in this last module, what are the implications for ‘doing’ digital archaeology?

I personally feel that all fields of study must constantly be on the hunt for new ways of thinking and creating analysis that can not only apply to their work, but also allow them to stand on their own two feet, independent of the confines of computer or network technology. Digital archaeology is a recent field, but one that I believe continuously challenges and explores these previously held beliefs about what digital archaeology is and how it can be meaningful.

Ultimately, I feel that what makes digital archaeology so interesting is that’nobody knows for sure how their work will be received by or affect the community they're working in. Digital archaeology allows for the unknown to be found and known about, which creates a climate of uncertainty that is contrary to everything I've learned in this course and threatens the fabric of what I believe is a vital humanist strand of my being. I worry that in our preoccupation with a paperless life and deathbed discoveries that we might overlook the legacy of paper and digital archaeology, and that, through documenting androstenes, we might create new skills that will allow us to survive and thrive beyond the grave. Hodgetts recollection of the feeling of wonder she experienced when, coupled with my subsequent reflection on that experience, gave me the chills I got from time to time, and the thought that googling my results may one day give me an answer to. At the end of the module, I also felt a new emotion when I realized that my survey of the cemetery I surveyed wasn't final. I figured because I completed the activity and all that followed, my choices about what data to collect and how to organize it were final. I was wrong. Because I chose to leave the final step of creating the visualization up to Max, I was allowed to keep the data I collected and, in doing so, I also learned how to use Python&mdash; a skill I certainly haven't lacked this week!

I made some small errors while running the activity, and now as I write this having completed the activity, I am left with many questions&mdash; some that are unexpected, and some that I can only speculate upon. I wonder, who was** this person working for? What prompted them to undertake this work? Why did they decide to document a cemetery only to abandon it when they were done? And most importantly, what is the thought behind each marker I place?

**This question is a reflection of how the creators of the cemetery I visited feel about their work being public and, by extension, public about their practices. Many feel that documenting a cemetery only to abandon it when they were done is a sign of laziness, as if the discovery of a cemetery on a given date were a failure and nothing to be celebrated. While I totally get why someone would want to document a cemetery only to abandon it when they were done, I personally feel that this is a sign of things to come as more sites are discovered and the processes of preservation are considered. As the saying goes, time is money! And the digitization of sites of significant human architecture and history is just one aspect of what I believe to be a rapidly expanding field that I can't wait to see explore.

About the Author:

Kersel Lauren is a 21-year-old student at the University of Pennsylvania pursuing a minor in computer science. She currently uses Jekyll to build her websites, and it's been her tool of choice for the past 3 weeks. When it came to using Jekyll to build her own website, she chose to use it primarily because of how easy it is to integrate new modules into your site, and it's easy to use. The single line of code needed to be automated and well documented, and the structure and functions of the website after was already structured that way, so it was actually surprisingly easy to tweak the layout to my liking. The issue I ran into the most, however, was installing Ruby. After downloading and installing the correct version, I was able to navigate to the command line and launch the latest version of Ruby I could navigate to, but when installing packages locally, the command line would not install them and instead, install them just like they're supposed to be installed. I was able to solve this by creating a .gem file in the root of the project's folder and linking it to the version of Ruby I wanted to install, but this still didn't get the job done. I opened a ticket with Jekyll support and they helped a ton! They said the easiest solution was to just manually update and that would only take a minute or two. I was absolutely not alone in these woes, but in a good way. Within a week of filing the issue with Jekyll, I had managed to install Jekyll for Windows, and it was now time for me to install Jekyll for Mac

====================

Given what you’ve read and explored in this last module, what are the implications for ‘doing’ digital archaeology?

I personally feel that digital archaeology handles this meta-narrative differently from how it was done before, and that of course, there are lessons to be learned. I remember in the beginning of this course, I was working on an assignment that had me transcribing a diary entry from a cemetery I visited in hopes of understanding its contents-- a task I knew I couldn't do, but somehow still retried anyway. The very first thing I did when I got home and opened up the app I was using to try and find a way to easily copy and paste the text I had just transcribed was open the page where I had copied the data and then go to check the "show context" box. I clicked it, and sure enough, a bunch of the definitions and even the dates were missing their contextual information. Did I mention I had no idea how to find these definitions anywhere? I crocked through the definitions I had found on the web and noticed one that stated the cemetery was located on "The farm of [surname]" and asked myself, "if the author was actually from Toronto and lived here, why would they add this note at the end of their diary?" Based on my gut feeling, I concluded that the person who uploaded the data must have been going through some form of transition, and so they added this note at the end of their own diary to indicate that they were no longer in the habit of using this method of memorialization. Either that, or the person who uploaded the data was transposing data from another database that they visited repeatedly, which I assumed was yet another transposed value added by the person who created it.

The definition of "delivered" I checked gave me no indication of when or where the diary was meant to be delivered, so I presume it's a simple mistake. I opened the text file my Aurax search tool had generated and noticed that the date stamp for the file was different from the timestamp listed on the header, and then went to check the HTML of the diary's first three entry pages. I discovered that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to publicly display their data, which made the data even more discoverable. I opened the "inspect element" tool on the webpage showing the diary's first three entry pages, and found that the person who uploaded the data had chosen to
====================
